=pod

=head1 NAME

mm2g - Export data from munin master to graphite

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  /usr/local/sbin/mm2g --skip '.+http_load_time\.' /var/lib/munin/*/*.rrd

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program reads you round robin databases and sends the data to
graphite. This is helpful if you have a running munin infrastructure and
just want to use graphite to take a better look at the same data. You
don't have to duplicate all your scripts or ask the same scripts for
the same data twice.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item --host

The host name or ip address of our graphite host. Defaults to the hostname
I<graphite>.

=item --port

The port on which carbon is listening for its plaintext protocol. Defaults
to 2003.

=item --mode init|update

You can either export all your data to the graphite server by using
I<init>, which can take a long time, or just send the newest data points
via I<update> mode.

Most users would run with I<--mode init> for the first time, and just
use I<--mode update> via cron after that.

Defaults to I<update>.

=item --interval

The start of the time series your want to send during I<--mode update>. A
time in seconds since epoch, but you can also use AT-STYLE TIME
SPECIFICATION as specified in I<man rrdfetch>. Default to I<-10m>. This
value should probably be a little bigger than your update interval. So
if your sending data every 5 minutes, the default should be a good
compromise.

=item --skip

A regular expression matching all files in ARGV you want to skip.

=item --debug

Print the data to stdout instead of sending it to graphite.

=back

=head1 INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build install

=head1 AUTHOR

Mario Domgoergen E<lt>mario@domgoergen.comE<gt>
